---
layout: post
title: Numerical Analysis (NA_PCOM7E)
subtitle: Module2 Numerical Analysis
categories: Module_Info
tags: [NumericalAnalysis, Mathematics, Statistics, Probability, Calculus, Data, Analysis, Information, RStudio, Code, AI]
---

## Summary of the Module
In this module, we:
- Started digging deep into how to use various tools for data analysis.
- Explored mathematical concepts like statistics, probability, etc.
- Encountered with various data structures, different types of data available in the world; Ex: aplha-numeric, text, audio, video, etc.
- Came across a tool called R, a powerful programming language capable of computing complex mathematical tasks using the different forms of data.
- Built machine learning models using the prescribed data.

## Description of The Activites Performed 
In the beginning of this module, we has studied a bit of mathematics. It included concepts like statistics, probability, and calculus which would later help us understand the module deeply. We also came across various probability distributions, which help in determining the sanity of the data. [This](https://demonstrations.wolfram.com/MarbleProbability/) is a sample website that can help understand the mathematical concepts.

As we progressed further, we familiarized ourselves with the R programming language by exploring various functions present in it. Using the Crime Survey for England and Wales, 2013-2014: Unrestricted Access Teaching Dataset([access here](https://beta.ukdataservice.ac.uk/datacatalogue/studies/study?id=8011#!/details)), we performed various numerous data analysis tasks as per the module instructions. 

Followed by this, we also comprehended various Machine learning concepts like regression analysis, classification analysis, etc., in the module.In the final stages of the module, on the above data, we had performed some data analysis tasks and built a linear regression model and a few classification models, which are a part of Machine Learning.

## Key Takeaways From The Module
We had also then reflected on your learnings from this module. Here are a few key ones:
- Mathematical concepts like probability, statistics, calculus, etc.
- Types of data and tools required to handle them.
- Machine Learning algorithms like linear regression, logistic regression, decision trees, K-nearest neighbours and many more.

All in all, it was a very powerful, and a very informative module, the benefits of which, would be thoroughly reaped. You can access the final presentation, the dataset, code used for this module's assignment, [here.](https://github.com/Bharadwaj-GLN/Bharadwaj-GLN/tree/main/Uni-Essex-files/Numerical-Analysis)
