---
layout: post
title: Understanding Artificial Intelligence (UAI_PCOM7E) 
subtitle: Module1 Understanding Artificial Intelligence (AI)
categories: Module_Info
tags: [Activity, Discussion, Forum, Articles, AI, Information]
---

## Summary of Discussion Forums

### Discussion 1:
- Initial post about AI was made by peers highlighting the ethical and professional issues faced by companies using AI.
- Supporting and opposing statements were given as responses to the initial posts.
- Understood various methodologies, techniques, softwares, and algorithms used by companies that they use to accomplish their goals.

### Discussion 2:
- Information on various Machine Learning (ML) algorithms was presented as initial posts.
- Peer responses were made on the same, by stating additional facts and examples.
- Criticality of the methodologies, and the ML algorithms was observed.

### Discussion 3:
- Summary post about the ethical and professional implementations of AI.
- Collective arguments regarding all the posts were stated.

## Final Assignment of The Module
After thorouhly following each unit's resources and the knowledge gained from the collaborative discussions, all the students have posted their final views on what AI actually is, what is it's future from the present standpoint, what are the ethical and professional challenges posed by it, and the future applications of the technology. You can refer to the document [here.](https://github.com/Bharadwaj-GLN/Uni-Essex-Module-Files/tree/main/Understanding-Artificial-Intelligence)

## Key Takeaways From the Module
- The history of AI.
- Various domains using AI.
- Limitations of AI in those domains.
- The ethical measures around AI for creating efficient solutions.
- Common approach of tackling the problems in the domains.
- Building solutions using a no-code ML software.
