---
layout: post
title: Intelligent Agents (IA_PCOM7E) 
subtitle: Module5 Intelligent Agents (IA)
categories: Module_Info
tags: [Activity, Discussion, Forum, Articles, AI, Information, Agents, Python, Code, Bots, NeuralNets, ANN, DNN, RNN, NLP]
---

## Summary Of The Module
- This module is about intelligent agents, that, in simple terms, are programs/algorithms, built into a machine to make it capable of carrying a task using logic, decision making skills and many other parameters.
- We learned how are they built, what tools and softwares are required in order to build one, what kind of tasks they can do and many other things.
- During the course of this module, we, as 2-3 member groups put together our versions of intelligent agents, as a part of the project that we had to develop in this course.
- We also participated in interesting and engaging discussions and understood different perspectives and areas in which intelligent agents can be extensively used. There were live seminars conducted by our professor that helped us further in this module.
- Amidst the course, we were also asked to carry out a few formative and summative activities, that would be later shown in this post.

## Key Takeaways From The Module
The following were the key takeaways from this module:
- Develop the intelligent agents using python and its libraries
- Deploy the agents onto a server and monitor the same.
- Evaluate the performance of the agent and analyse more efficient ways to make the agent work in a given environment
- Understand team dynamics while doing the course.

## Description of Activities Performed During The Module
Here's a brief description of what was done during the module:
- During Units 1-3, we made posts in the discussion forum of our learning platform ([access my posts and responses' doc here](https://github.com/Bharadwaj-GLN/Uni-Essex-Module-Files/tree/main/Intelligent-Agents))
- After units 4 & 5, we were asked to create an agent communication dialog in which 2 parties communicate about the given question (find out the count of 50 Inch TVs and number of HDMI Cables). The response is given below ([access file here](https://github.com/Bharadwaj-GLN/Uni-Essex-Module-Files/tree/main/Intelligent-Agents)).
- 
