---
layout: post
title: Knowledge Representation and Reasoning (KRR_PCOM7E) 
subtitle: Module4 Knowledge Representation and Reasoning (KRR)
categories: Module_Info
tags: [Activity, Discussion, Forum, Articles, AI, Information, Knowledge, Reasoning, Representation, Software, Protege, Ontology]
---
## Summary of the module
We had explored the following aspects in the KRR module:
- The concepts associated with KRR (Knowledge Bases, tools, etc.)
- Learned about Ontologies, modelling techniques, software associated with developing the ontologies. 
- Developed and analysed ontologies as part of project work
- Also developed different perspectives towards solving problems using KRR

## Description of The Module
At the start of the KRR module, we familiarized ourselves with the definitions of terms, i.e., what is a knowledge base, how to interpret data WRT KRR terms as well as in common knowledge. In parallel, we were also instucted to discuss using the student forum, which unfortunately, ran dry as the module progressed. After take off, we then explored the concepts of set theory, First Order Logic(FOL) and learned how are set theory and truth tables related and how can they be used to logically solve problems. I must admit that it was due to my negligence that I was not able to complete the formative activities present in the module. However, I was able to submit the first assignment on time. You can access the file [here](https://github.com/Bharadwaj-GLN/Uni-Essex-Module-Files/tree/main/Knowledge-Representation-%26-Reasoning)

In the second half of the module, I occupied myself with developing a prototype ontology as part of assignment work. Honestly, the second stint of the module was more productive for me because I got to explore the Protégé software and was able to get considerbale amount of hands on on it. I had to develop a prototype for a library whihc was looking to better its services using AI powered tools. The ontology file and the report for the same are present [here](https://github.com/Bharadwaj-GLN/Uni-Essex-Module-Files/tree/main/Knowledge-Representation-%26-Reasoning). Unfortunately while submitting the project work, I had given in the wrong file due to which I could not clear the module, thereby being asked to resubmit my work again.

The resubmission had also dealt with developing a prototype ontology for a pharma company, who specialized in manufacture and sales of prescribed and over the counter medicine. However, due to incresing demand in consultations, there were delays occurring in its online service delivery. Hence, I had to redo the ontology for this question again, using the Protégé software. The files can be accessed [here](https://github.com/Bharadwaj-GLN/Uni-Essex-Module-Files/tree/main/Knowledge-Representation-%26-Reasoning).

The module, as a whole was very useful and insightful as we got to learn many different, new and powerful concepts that can be used in the field of AI, but, it was due to my negligence, that I had to redo my whole assignment again. On the plus side, I got to do a tad more than what my fellow students did, by doing an ontology for a pharma company. I have definitely learned from my mistakes and will ensure not to repeat the same again in my future challenges.

## Key Takeaways From the Module
There were many essential takeaways from this module out of which the following were key:
- Learned how to articulate reasons based on the available knowledge base
- Learned to develop ontologies that help make logical and rational decisions
- Explored various perspectives to look at KRR like (ethical, professional, and so on.)
- Learned to deal with situations patiently (this was due to my wrongly submitted assignment).

I'd like to finally thank my professor, Mr. Douglas Milward for taking time and educating us with the concepts of KRR.
